## The Polls and their results.
It’s time to get to the main point of this article. How did people start their journey? And What do they recommend for beginners? These questions were asked for the past two weeks, and here are the results:
So why do we need to know how people started their journeys? Well, I thought it would present the reality of the people in the market or the industries. I originally wanted to write the article with only this poll and draw a few conclusions. Then I thought comparing people’s recommendations to this when the voting ended would be fun.
Online/Offline Machine learning courses
Based on history, many people started their journey through ML online/offline courses. This can be their college curriculum or Coursera, or other platforms. This result is natural, as it was obvious. I didn’t expect the 24% of people who started their journey through DL. As I said, the market needed flashy terms like “ _Convolution Neural Networks_” or projects like “ _Sentiment classification_”. I thought to confirm this with the recruiters I know, and they accepted that Sentiment classification is the most common project they see in the resumes they get.
Mathematics
I genuinely found a new respect for those who started in Math. I want to know if they covered all the essential topics from calculus to Stats and optimization or if it was part of their uni curriculum. However, only 26% started their journey in Math.
But I wouldn’t recommend beginners start from Math. Of course, High-school level math is still essential, but other than that, I think starting from math takes a lot of time if you plan to enter the job market. Maybe even for people who want to focus on research, I recommend not starting from here. Having fun with the projects is more motivating and engaging than math. Slowly as you do projects, you will automatically find the need to understand certain aspects of different concepts.
For example, you can focus on game theory’s essential and relevant aspects when you want to learn Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Or the relevant probability concepts when discussing Variational Autoencoders or Graph neural networks.
Project-Based Learning
Finally, the most contradictory part is the project-based approach to machine learning. This is my new favorite approach as I learn and develop the models. I am now even training models with only 1~2 differences, like having or not having batch norm or max pooling vs. average pooling, etc. I love this approach as I can understand the differences by visualizing and quantifying the saliency of the models. I can see why many people recommend the project-based approach. Roughly 35% (~1% more than people who recommend math.) of the people recommended people start their journeys this way.
In the aspects of jobs, however, the need for certifications for Machine learning courses is needed to be considered. So, I still need to discuss this with others before concluding. This approach adds fun projects to your resume, and if you dive into your projects, this can help in your interviews a lot.
### So? What should you take from this poll?
Now, the decision is up to you. Many who recommend a project-based approach or Math started their journey probably from courses. This can be backed by the higher percentage of people who started from ML courses. However, they probably have a reason to recommend starting with math or a project-based approach.
This decision between math and a project-based approach is highly made depending on your time requirements and priorities. If you have sufficient time, then I will recommend starting with Math. However, don’t dive too deep. Getting intuition and practicing a few problems is enough. We are not going to win international olympiads. We only need sufficient background to understand what research papers present.
However, if you have limited time, I recommend a project-based approach, especially if you have some interviews. This gives you enough leverage to answer questions in the interview. So, the decision is now up to **you**.
One thing that is important to note is that I have just taken the results directly from the LinkedIn polls. It was hard to export the voter’s details and get info about age, location, industry, education level, etc., to make a better report. So, it would be better to think about how you start your journey still seriously. At the end of the day, everyone plays their own game, each with its own rules.
By the way, if you use the project-based approach, staying tuned for my articles might also interest you. I am currently working on some projects that I think are fun while also trying to present a different point of view for the base theory. Even if you don’t choose this approach, stay tuned for other articles where I summarise and present articles on various topics.